---
title: "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams"
tag: book
---

# Quotes

Time is an illusion. Lunchtime doubly so.

  >  "[Y]ou'd better be prepared for the jump into hyperspace. It's unpleasantly like being drunk."
  >  "What's so unpleasant about being drunk?"
  >  "You ask a glass of water."

— Ford and Arthur

Isn't it enough to see that a garden is beautiful without having to believe there are fairies at the bottom of it too?

"Are you sure you mean *think*? Pick your words with care." — Ford

"I only know as much about myself as my mind can work out under its current conditions. And its current conditions are not good." — Zaphod

"Perhaps I'm old and tired, but I always think that the chances of finding out what's really going on are so absurdly remote that the only thing to do is to say hang the sense of it and just keep yourself occupied." —Slartibartfast

(on Zaphod Beeblebrox the Nothingth)
If his eyes weren't what they once were, they must once have been diamond cutters.

**In cases of major discrepancy it's always reality that's got it wrong.**

"Look, I'm up to HERE with cool, okay? I am so amazingly cool you could keep a side of meat in me for a month. I am so hip I have difficulty seeing over my pelvis." — Zaphod

The Universe, as has been observed before, is an unsettlingly big place, a fact which for the sake of a quiet life most people tend to ignore. Many would happily move to somewhere rather smaller of their own devising.

To summarize: it is a well-known fact that those people who must want to rule are, ipso facto, those least suited to do it.

"My doctor says I have a malformed public duty gland and a natural deficiency in moral fiber." — Zaphod

(the Guide on drunkenness)
"Go to it, and good luck."

It is a curious fact, and one to which no one knows quite how much importance to attach, that something like 85 percent of all known worlds in the Galaxy, be they primitive or highly advanced, have invented a drink called jynnan tonnyx, or gee-N-N-T’N-ix, or jinond-o-nicks, or any one of a thousand or more variations on the same phonetic theme. The drinks themselves are not the same, and vary between the Sivolvian “chinanto/mnigs” which is ordinary water served at slightly above room temperature, and the Gagrakackan “tzjin-anthony-ks” which kills cows at a hundred paces; and in fact the one common factor between all of them, beyond the fact that the names sound the same, is that they were all invented and named before the worlds concerned made contact with any other worlds.

"We're not obsessed about anything, you see. And that's the deciding factor. We can't win against obsession. They care, we don't. They win." — Ford, on the Krikkits

  >  “ … then we don’t stand a whelk’s chance in a supernova.”
  >  …
  >  “What’s a whelk got to do with a supernova?”
  >  “It doesn’t stand a chance in one.”

— Ford and Arthur

(on the Cathedral of Hate)
It was the product of a mind that was not merely twisted, but actually sprained.

